UpdateERCs (#6)
SecurityTokenStandard/EIP-Spec: eip/eip-1400.md

category: ERC
created: 2018-09-09
require: ERC-1410 (#1410), ERC-1594 (#1594), ERC-20 (#20), ERC-1066 (#1066)

---

## Simple Summary

Acts as an umbrella standard to combine other standards which are relevant and useful for issuing and managing security tokens.

In aggregate provides a standard interface for issuing security tokens, managing their ownership and transfer restrictions and providing transparency to token holders on how different subsets of their token balance behave with respect to transfer restrictions, rights and obligations. Combines ERC-1410 (#1410) and ERC-1594 (#1594).

## Abstract

Builds on the partially fungible token standard (ERC-1410 (#1410)) and the security token standard (ERC-1594 (#1594)) to define functionality to manage different types of ownership of fungible tokens representing asset ownership.

The standard is backwards compatible with ERC-20 (#20) and can be easily extended to be compatible with ERC-777 (#777).

## Motivation

Accelerate the issuance and management of securities on the Ethereum blockchain by specifying a standard interface through which security tokens can be operated on and interrogated by all relevant parties.

> The security token standard (#1594) provides document management, error signalling, gate keeper (operator) access control, off-chain data injection and issuance / redemption semantics.

Reviewer: ERC-1400 Family of Standards:
1. Extended ERC-20 (transferWithData, mint/burn)
2. Document Management Standard
3. Error Signalling Standard / Transfer Restrictions
4. Controller Permission Management Standard (log changes in permissioned operations + addresses, query permissioned addresses)
5. Differentiated Ownership Standard
6. Cashflow Management Standard
7. Asset Composability Standard
8. Corporate Action Standard

For example a token holder's balance may be split in two: those tokens issued during the primary issuance, and those received through secondary trading.

Security token contracts can reference this metadata in order to apply additional logic to determine whether or not a transfer is valid, and determine the metadata that should be associated with the tokens once transferred into the receiver's balance.

To represent securities metadata we use ERC-1410 (#1410) - Partially Fungible Token Standard.

Transfers of securities can fail for a variety of reasons in contrast to utility tokens which generally only require the sender to have a sufficient balance.

These conditions could be related to metadata of the securities being transferred (i.e. whether they are subject to a lock-up period), the identity of the sender and receiver of the securities (i.e. whether they have been through a KYC process, whether they are accredited or an affiliate of the issuer) or for reasons unrelated to the specific transfer but instead set at the token level (i.e. the token contract enforces a maximum number of investors or a cap on the percentage held by any single investor).

> 

Reviewer 2: For metadata, do we have the specific format related to securities as `ERC1410` can be used in other use cases as well. So I think for securities we need to create a Specific format of metadata that makes easier to read the values of it on-chain & off-chain.

Author: Agreed. Need to think about where this should live though as ERC 1410 is not security token specific. Probably as a part of ERC 1400.

Reviewer 2: Yes I am more inclined that it will live in the ERC1400

In order to provide a richer result than just true or false, a byte return code is returned. This allows us to give a reason for why the transfer failed, or at least which category of reason the failure was in. The ability to query documents and the expected success of a transfer is included in Security Token section.

In order to support off-chain data inputs to transfer functions, transfer functions are extended to `transferWithData` / `transferFromWithData` which can optionally take an additional `bytes _data` parameter.

To represent transfer restrictions we use ERC-1594 (#1594) - Security Token Standard.

## Specification

This standard does not specify any additional functions, but combines ERC-1410 (#1410) and ERC-1594 (#1594) to provide both standard security token functionality as well as partitions (partially fungible tokens) to provide further transparency on transfer restrictions.

In order to combine these two standards, the additional constraints are specified.

### operatorTransferByPartition

> If the token is controllable (`isControllable` returns `TRUE`) then the controller may use `operatorTransferByPartition` without being explicitly authorised by the token holder.

Reviewer 2: On the literal side, `Controllable` and `operator` are not making a good pair,
I prefer to make `isControllable() => isOperatable()` that clearly defines the operator can transfer the tokens. because on the literal side `isControllable()` is not meant to allow the transfer for the operator. Or we can replace the `operator` to `controller` in the function name.

We could also change the function name `operatorTrasferByPartition`  to `transferPartitionByOperator`. I think later makes more sense to facilitate the transfer by the operator.

Reviewer 3: If there are provisions for operators of specific partitions why not match this domain to isControllable, i.e. `isControllable(bytes32 partition)` ?

In this instance, the `operatorTransferByPartition` MUST also emit a ControllerTransfer event.

Correspondingly, if `isControllable` returns `FALSE` then the controller cannot call `operatorTransferByPartition` unless explicitly authorised by the token holder.

> ### operatorRedeemByPartition

Reviewer 2: same for this name `redeemPartitionByOperator`

  // Transfers
  function transferWithData(address _to, uint256 _value, bytes _data) external;
  function transferFromWithData(address _from, address _to, uint256 _value, bytes _data) external;

  // Partition Token Transfers
  function transferByPartition(bytes32 _partition, address _to, uint256 _amount, bytes _data) external returns (bytes32);
  function operatorTransferByPartition(bytes32 _partition, address _from, address _to, uint256 _amount, bytes _data, bytes _operatorData) external returns (bytes32);

  // Controller Operation
  function isControllable() external view returns (bool);
  function controllerTransfer(address _from, address _to, uint256 _value, bytes _data, bytes _operatorData) external;
  function controllerRedeem(address _tokenHolder, uint256 _amount, bytes _data, bytes _operatorData) external;

  // Operator Management
  function authorizeOperator(address _operator) external;
  function revokeOperator(address _operator) external;
  function authorizeOperatorByPartition(bytes32 _partition, address _operator) external;
  function revokeOperatorByPartition(bytes32 _partition, address _operator) external;

>   // Operator Information

Reviewer 3: I think the API can be simplified. Most operations exist in two states `verbNoun(...)` and `verbNounByPartition(partition, ...)`, e.g., authorizeOperator, authorizeOperatorByPartition, revokeOperator, revokeOperatorByPartition, isOperator, isOperatorForPartition, etc..

Instead, a special partition that represents all partitions (top) can be defined, and then one only needs one version of the mentioned functions and events. I would not over-specify this functionality, to allow the implementers to implement any logic they need to simplify the regulatory compliance in their specific jurisdiction.

Author: Hey @nevillegrech - I agree with a lot of this. One issue is that we wanted to make this part of the standard separate to the other core security token functionality (by splitting it into #1410) which implies a different naming standard. As / when standardisation and consensus changes though this is def. a simpler approach to bear in mind.

  function isOperator(address _operator, address _tokenHolder) external view returns (bool);
  function isOperatorForPartition(bytes32 _partition, address _operator, address _tokenHolder) external view returns (bool);

  // Token Issuance
  function isIssuable() external view returns (bool);
  function issue(address _tokenHolder, uint256 _amount, bytes _data) external;
  function issueByPartition(bytes32 _partition, address _tokenHolder, uint256 _amount, bytes _data) external;

  // Token Redemption
  function redeem(uint256 _amount, bytes _data) external;
  function redeemFrom(address _tokenHolder, uint256 _amount, bytes _data) external;
  function redeemByPartition(bytes32 _partition, uint256 _amount, bytes _data) external;
  function operatorRedeemByPartition(bytes32 _partition, address _tokenHolder, uint256 _amount, bytes _operatorData) external;

  // Transfer Validity

>   function canTransfer(address _from, address _to, uint256 _amount, bytes _data) external view returns (byte, bytes32);

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  function canTransfer(address _to, uint256 _value) external view returns (bool, bytes1);
  function canTransferFrom(address _from, address _to, uint256 _value) external view returns (bool, bytes1);
  function canTransferWithData(address _to, uint256 _value, bytes _data) external view returns (bool, bytes1);
  function canTransferFromWithData(address _from, address _to, uint256 _value, bytes _data) external view returns (bool, bytes1);
```
Rationale:
- Including a `canTransferFrom` check enables checks for the validity of the *operator* and whether sufficient allowances are set.
- Breaking out the `bytes _data` parameter into `canTransferWithData` and `canTransferFromWithData` will lead to smoother integrations in cases with no data (which seem to be the vast majority as of now) but will not incur much implementation penalty as the same internal functions can be reused across each.
- Returning a `bool` is a recurrent request among implementors, and will be the main variable that many integrations are actually checking for. Surfacing the reason via a `byte` (named `bytes1` here to be more explicit) is still important so as to conform with EIP-1066. The additional `bytes32` status could still be included as a third return value if necessary, but an optional, more verbose interface could be provided (my preferred solution).
- Setting parameter names to directly shadow the actual ERC20 transfer methods makes the association more clear.

Author: I've updated to split out `canTransfer` from `canTransferFrom` and added a `bool` return value. I haven't modified to add different versions for `withData` - my preference would be to have a single version, but effectively pass in an empty `_data` value if not appropriate. I'll add to the agenda for the next community call.

  function canTransferByPartition(address _from, address _to, bytes32 _partition, uint256 _amount, bytes _data) external view returns (byte, bytes32, bytes32);    

  // Controller Events
  event ControllerTransfer(
      address controller,
      address indexed from,
      address indexed to,

>       uint256 amount,

Reviewer 2: Then `amount` should be replaced to `_value` to make ERC20 compatible

Author: I switched to using value rather than amount everywhere for consistency.

#### Reason Codes

To improve the token holder experience, `canTransfer` MUST return a reason byte code on success or failure based on the EIP-1066 application-specific status codes specified below. An implementation can also return arbitrary data as a `bytes32` to provide additional information not captured by the reason code.

| Code   | Reason                                                        |
| ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `0x50` | 	transfer failure                                             |
| `0x51` | 	transfer success                                             |
| `0x52` | 	insufficient balance                                         |
| `0x53` | 	insufficient allowance                                       |
| `0x54` | 	transfers halted (contract paused)                           |
| `0x55` | 	funds locked (lockup period)                                 |
| `0x56` | 	invalid sender                                               |
| `0x57` | 	invalid receiver                                             |
| `0x58` | 	invalid operator (transfer agent)                            |

> | `0x59` |                                                               |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `0x59` | 	invalid balance                                              |
```
This code is important for identifying cases where minimum or maximum balance requirements would be violated. Many regulations and other agreements will require that ownership is not concentrated too heavily.

Reviewer 2: If we are going to make some standardization over the metadata of the securities then we also need `invalid data` error code
